feat: keycloak log-based alerting (#1974)
defenseunicorns/uds-core: docs/reference/configuration/single-sign-on/notifications-and-alerts.md

|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `uds_keycloak:uds_realm_modifications_count`           | Total number of the `uds` realm configuration changes, aggregated into 1-minute windows                                                     |
| `uds_keycloak:master_realm_modifications_count`        | Total number of `master` realm configuration changes, aggregated into 1-minute windows                                                      |
| `uds_keycloak:uds_user_modifications_count`            | Total number of the `uds` realm user configuration changes, aggregated into 1-minute windows                                                |
| `uds_keycloak:uds_system_admin_modifications_count`    | Total number of the `uds` realm system administrator configuration changes (members of `/UDS Core/Admin`), aggregated into 1-minute windows |

> | `uds_keycloak:master_system_admin_modifications_count` | Total number of system administrator configuration changes (within the `master` realm), aggregated into 1-minute windows                    |

Reviewer: these need adjusted based on the combining of the metrics together

| `KeycloakUDSRealmModificationsDetected`          | `uds_keycloak:uds_realm_modifications_count`           | Alerts on the `uds` realm configuration changes within a 5-minute window                                                           |
| `KeycloakUDSRealmModificationsDetected`          | `uds_keycloak:master_realm_modifications_count`        | Alerts on the `master` realm configuration changes within a 5-minute window                                                        |
| `KeycloakUDSUserModificationsDetected`           | `uds_keycloak:uds_user_modifications_count`            | Alerts on the `uds` realm user configuration changes within a 5-minute window                                                      |
| `KeycloakUDSSystemAdminModificationsDetected`    | `uds_keycloak:uds_system_admin_modifications_count`    | Alerts on the `uds` realm system administrator configuration changes (members of `/UDS Core/Admin` group) within a 5-minute window |

> | `KeycloakMasterSystemAdminModificationsDetected` | `uds_keycloak:master_system_admin_modifications_count` | Alerts on system administrator configuration changes (members of the `master` realm) within a 5-minute window                      |

Reviewer: these need adjusted based on the combining of the alerts

1. In the Keycloak Admin Console, select the `master` realm.
2. Go to Realm Settings > Events.
3. Add `jsonlog-event-listener` to Event Listeners.
4. Click Save.

## Keycloak notifications and alerting

By default, UDS Core does not enable detailed notifications and alerting for Keycloak. This feature is opt-in and must

> be explicitly enabled if you want to receive advanced metrics and alerts about Keycloak configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, UDS Core does not enable detailed notifications and alerting for Keycloak. This feature is opt-in and must be explicitly enabled if you want to receive alerts about Keycloak configuration changes.
```
I think the alerts is the only thing that is off by default

```

When enabled, UDS Core converts Keycloak event logs into Prometheus metrics
using [Loki recording rules](/reference/configuration/observability/logging-alerting/#deploying-recording-rules):

| Loki Recording Rule Name                        | Description                                                                                                                 |
|-------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `uds_keycloak:realm_modifications_count`        | Total number of realm configuration changes, aggregated into 1-minute windows                                               |
| `uds_keycloak:user_modifications_count`         | Total number of user configuration changes, aggregated into 1-minute windows                                                |
| `uds_keycloak:system_admin_modifications_count` | Total number of system administrator configuration changes (members of `/UDS Core/Admin`), aggregated into 1-minute windows |

You can view these metrics in the built-in `UDS Keycloak Notifications` Grafana dashboard:

> ![Keycloak Notifications Grafana Dashboard](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/main/docs/.images/sso/keycloak-notifications-grafana.png?raw=true)

Author: Rejected

|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `KeycloakRealmModificationsDetected`       | `uds_keycloak:realm_modifications_count`        | Alerts on realm configuration changes within a 5-minute window                                                     |
| `KeycloakUserModificationsDetected`        | `uds_keycloak:user_modifications_count`         | Alerts on user configuration changes within a 5-minute window                                                      |
| `KeycloakSystemAdminModificationsDetected` | `uds_keycloak:system_admin_modifications_count` | Alerts on system administrator configuration changes (members of `/UDS Core/Admin` group) within a 5-minute window |

### Third-party integrations

All Keycloak notification alerts are available in Grafana. System administrators can enable third-party Grafana
integrations to receive notifications in the tool of their choice.
See [Configure Grafana notifications](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/configure-notifications/) for

> details.

Reviewer: We should actually recommend users to configure alertmanager to send these notifications in grafana. Some of the work being done in https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/pull/1987 recommends using alertmanager for all alert routing.  So i would reword this like:
```suggestion
All Keycloak notification alerts are sent to Alertmanager. You can use Alertmanager to route to external notification sources.  See [Alertmanager Configuration](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/configuration/#receiver-integration-settings) for details.
```
